# Azure-metrics-exporter

Azure metrics exporter for [Prometheus.](https://prometheus.io)

Allows for the exporting of metrics from Azure applications using the [Azure monitor API.](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-rest-api-walkthrough)

## Install

```bash
go get -u github.com/RobustPerception/azure_metrics_exporter
```

## Usage
```bash
./azure_metrics_exporter --help
```

## Rate limits

Note that Azure imposes an [API read limit of 15,000 requests per hour](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-manager-request-limits) so the number of metrics you're querying for should be proportional to your scrape interval.

## Exporter configuration

This exporter requires a configuration file. By default, it will look for the azure.yml file in the CWD.

### Azure account requirements

This exporter reads metrics from an existing Azure subscription with these requirements:

* If not using managed identities:
  * An application must be registered (e.g., Azure Active Directory -> App registrations -> New application registration)
  * The registered application must have reading permission to Azure Monitor (e.g., Subscriptions -> your_subscription -> Access control (IAM) -> Role assignments -> Add -> Add role assignment -> Role : "Monitoring Reader", Select:  your_app)

* If using managed identities:
  * The VM running the azure-metrics-exporter must have reading permission to Azure Monitor (e.g., Subscriptions -> your_subscription -> Access control (IAM) -> Role assignments -> Add -> Add role assignment -> Role : "Monitoring Reader", Select:  your_vm)
  * Only `subscription_id` will be needed in your credentials configuration.

### Example azure-metrics-exporter config

`azure_resource_id` and `subscription_id` can be found under properties in the Azure portal for your application/service.

`azure_resource_id`  should start with `/resourceGroups...` (`/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxx-xxxxxxxxx` must be removed from the begining of `azure_resource_id` property value)

`tenant_id` is found under `Azure Active Directory > Properties` and is listed as `Directory ID`.

The `client_id` and `client_secret` are obtained by registering an application under 'Azure Active Directory'.

`client_id` is the `application_id` of your application and the `client_secret` is generated by selecting your application/service under Azure Active Directory, selecting 'keys', and generating a new key.

If you want to scrape metrics from Azure national clouds (e.g. AzureChinaCloud, AzureGermanCloud), you should provide `active_directory_authority_url` and `resource_manager_url` parameters. `active_directory_authority_url` is AzureAD url for getting access token. `resource_manager_url` is Azure API management url.
If you won't provide `active_directory_authority_url` and `resource_manager_url` parameters, azure-metrics-exporter scrapes metrics from global cloud.
You can find endpoints for national clouds [here](http://www.azurespeed.com/Information/AzureEnvironments)

```
active_directory_authority_url: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/"
resource_manager_url: "https://management.azure.com/"
credentials:
  subscription_id: <secret>
  client_id: <secret>
  client_secret: <secret>
  tenant_id: <secret>

targets:
  - resource: "azure_resource_id"
    metrics:
    - name: "BytesReceived"
    - name: "BytesSent"
  - resource: "azure_resource_id"
    aggregations:
    - Minimum
    - Maximum
    - Average
    metrics:
    - name: "Http2xx"
    - name: "Http5xx"
  - resource: "azure_resource_id"
    metric_namespace: "Azure.VM.Windows.GuestMetrics"
    metrics:
    - name: 'Process\Thread Count'

resource_groups:
  - resource_group: "webapps"
    resource_types:
    - "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines"
    resource_name_include_re:
    - "testvm.*"
    resource_name_exclude_re:
    - "testvm12"
    metrics:
    - name: "CPU Credits Consumed"

resource_tags:
  - resource_tag_name: "group"
    resource_tag_value: "tomonitor"
    resource_types:
      - "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines"
    metrics:
      - name: "CPU Credits Consumed"

```

By default, all aggregations are returned (`Total`, `Maximum`, `Average`, `Minimum`). It can be overridden per resource.

The `metric_namespace` property is optional for all filtering types.
When the metric namespace is specified, it will be added as a prefix of the metric name.
It can be used to target [custom metrics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-custom-overview), such as [guest OS performance counters](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/collect-custom-metrics-guestos-vm-classic).
If not specified, the default metric namespace of the resource will apply.

### Resource group filtering

Resources in a resource group can be filtered using the the following keys:

`resource_types`:
List of resource types to include (corresponds to the `Resource type` column in the Azure portal).

`resource_name_include_re`:
List of regexps that is matched against the resource name.
Metrics of all matched resources are exported (defaults to include all)

`resource_name_exclude_re`:
List of regexps that is matched against the resource name.
Metrics of all matched resources are ignored (defaults to exclude none)
Excludes take precedence over the include filter.

### Resource tag filtering

Resources having a specific tag name and tag value can be filtered:

`resource_tag_name`:
Name of the tag to be filtered against.

`resource_tag_value`:
Value of the tag to be filtered against.

`resource_types`: optional list of types kept in the list of resources gathered by tag. If none are specified, then all the resources are kept. All defined metrics must exist for each processed resource.

### Retrieving Metric definitions

In order to get all the metric definitions for the resources specified in your configuration file, run the following:

```bash
./azure_metrics_exporter --list.definitions
```

This will print your resource id's application/service name along with a list of each of the available metric definitions that you can query for for that resource.

### Retrieving Metric namespaces

In order to get all the metric namespaces for the resources specified in your configuration file, run the following:

```bash
./azure_metrics_exporter --list.namespaces
```

This will print your resource id's application/service name along with a list of each of the available metric namespaces that you can query for for that resource.

## Prometheus configuration

### Example config
```
global:
  scrape_interval:     60s # Set a high scrape_interval either globally or per-job to avoid hitting Azure Monitor API limits.

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: azure
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['localhost:9276']
```
